# SaveTheEarth2

#Iron Man

#Origin

Anthony Edward "Tony" Stark was born in Long Island, New York, to Howard Anthony Stark and Maria Collins Carbonell Stark. In his youth, Tony Stark was a precociously intelligent young boy. When Tony was 7 he was sent to a boarding school, and during this experience he found people difficult to relate to. This was when he became fascinated by machines. By the age of 15 Tony had enrolled in MIT (The Massachusetts Institute of Technology) in Boston, Massachusetts. He graduated at the top of his class at age 19 with double masters in physics and engineering.

At the age of 21, his parents were tragically killed in a car accident. Afterwards, Tony inherited Stark Industries, an unparalleled mega-conglomerate that mostly manufactured weapons for the United States military. One of his first projects as the new CEO was to purchase the manufacturer who designed his parents' car and have the faulty brake system, which was seemingly the cause of their deaths, redesigned in order to prevent any further incidents, thus saving lives. Unknown to Stark, the true architect of his parents' deaths was a business move by Republic Oil (later renamed Roxxon Oil). Lacking in business skills, Tony promoted secretary Pepper Potts to be his executive assistant and left the majority of his workload on her so that he could avoid what he saw as a burden.

During the war in Afghanistan, Stark was at one of his munitions plants testing new technology for the military when he was injured by his own land mine that lodged shrapnel near his heart. Tony was then captured by a local warlord named Wong-Chu (a lackey of the Mandarin) and forced under threat of death to create a doomsday weapon for him with another captive, the famed Nobel award-winning physicist, Yin Sen. The shrapnel was going to enter his heart and kill him, but he and the physicist created an arc reactor which kept the shrapnel away from his heart. In response, Tony built a suit of armor to help himself escape captivity. In the suit, Stark took on the warlord and his men and avenged Yin Sen's death, thus Iron Man was born.

#Creation#

Tony Stark made his first appearance in Tales of Suspense #39 in 1963. He was created by Stan Lee, Larry Lieber, Don Heck, and Jack Kirby. Tony's character was loosely based on the life of the rich and successful playboy Howard Hughes. It may be argued that Iron Man symbolized the meritocracy of capitalism. In the 1960's when Iron Man was created, the threat of Communism from the USSR was huge. Not only did Iron Man fight communists and people from the Eastern Block, but he sent the message that great things could be achieved through thrift, risk and hard work.

#Character Evolution

When Marvel re-emerged on the comic book scene in the Silver Age (some say Marvel's re-emergence signaled the beginning of the Silver Age of Comics) a big factor in their popularity was making easily relatable characters. In many cases, this took the form of a teenage hero for whom others felt some empathy (as at the time readership was primarily for those of a younger age.) Such heroes included the X-Men and Spider-Man. When it came to portraying more mature characters, there was still an emphasis on portraying the character's humanity as much as their heroics. In the case of Tony Stark, this took on essentially two different aspects. He had to battle alcoholism and re-organize his company so as not to be a war profiteer any longer. Over the course of his publication history, he has had to deal with both aspects of his life

#Secret Identity#

When Tony finally admitted his double identity to his fiancee Joanna Nivena, she encouraged him to use the armor to become a super hero and save lives. Iron Man began to establish himself as one of the U.S.'s most eminent super heroes, but while halting a breakout of lions and tigers from a circus, Tony saw how his armor frightened the people he was defending. Asking his date Marion what she would do if she were Iron Man, Tony painted his armor in stainless gold. Tony Stark allowed the public at large to believe that he was no more than a rich playboy while his identity as Iron Man would remain a secret. Since Iron Man was often seen at Stark Industries, Tony circulated the idea that Iron Man was his personal bodyguard. Stark, of course, still had his heart condition which meant that any day could potentially be his last. Luckily for him, his heart condition became publicly known and he was eventually healed by way of an artificial heart transplant.

When testing his "Stark Special" race car, Tony wound up in a wreck, but was saved at the last minute by ex-boxer Harry "Happy" Hogan . To repay Happy, Tony hired him as a chauffeur, although Happy became more like a bodyguard, resenting Iron Man. At the same time, former Stark Industries scientist Gregor Shapanka menaced Tony as Jack Frost (later renamed Blizzard), a villain who could generate ice. Happy would often try to play for Pepper's affection, but she was more interested in Tony. However, as Tony's heart could fail at any time, he didn't want to commit himself to a serious relationship since he could die unexpectedly. Happy remained extremely faithful to Tony, telling Iron Man straight out that if he had harmed Tony he would regret it during a period in which Iron Man was thought to have killed Tony. Happy even almost died when delivering a device to Iron Man that would stop Titanium Man